GLOSSARY.md, before:

<a name="top"></a>Open Competencies - Glossary
===
It is important to have a glossary, so that we all share a common understanding of the terms used to design this tool.  The final site should have a public-facing glossary, but for now this is an internal document so that developers are on the same page.

Terms
---
- [competency education](#competency_education)
- hierarchy/ taxonomy
    - [subject area](#subject)
        - [subdiscipline area](#subdiscipline_area)
            - [competency area](#competency_area)
                - [essential understanding](#essential_understanding)
                    - [learning target](#learning_target)
- other
    - types of standards
        - [professional standard](#professional_standard)
        - [common core standard](#common_core_standard)
        - [state standard](#state_standard)
    - [performance level](#performance_level)
        - [apprentice](#apprentice)
        - [technician](#technician)
        - [master](#master)
        - [professional](#professional)


Definitions
---

<a name="competency_education"></a>competency education
---
In competency-based education, or competency education for short, each student is given a map of all the things they could learn in high school.  Based on each student's post-high school goals, we specify the learning targets that each student needs to meet.  When a student meets all of their learning targets at the appropriate [performance level](#performance_level), they graduate.  There is no ninth, tenth, eleventh, or twelfth grade; if a student takes two years to finish their map, they graduate in two years.  If they take six years, they graduate in six years.

Traditional education models treat time in school as a constant, and learning as a variable.  So at the end of twelfth grade everyone has been at school for roughly the same number of years, but people have a huge range of skills and knowledge.  Within a class, Algebra 1 for example, everyone spends roughly the same amount of time in class but comes away with very different levels of knowledge, understanding, and skills.  Competency education flips this; it treats what is to be learned as a constant for each person, and lets them take whatever time they need (or don't need) to meet their own learning targets.

[top](#top)

<a name="subject_area"></a>subject area
---
The definition of an academic “subject area” may seem obvious, but it is important to define this term as we bring non-academic subjects into the system.  It is fairly straightforward to define the traditional academic subject areas such as Mathematics, Science, Social Studies, and English.

One of the advantages of a comprehensive system such as Open Competencies is the freedom we have to define anything and everything we might like young people to learn.  We want to value important skills such as programming, and important character traits such as honesty and reliability.  Which subjects do these traits and skills fall under?  A well-structured system forces us to answer this question, and answering this kind of question frees us to bring anything we identify as important to student success into the system.

[top](#top)

<a name="subdiscipline_area"></a>subdiscipline area
---
These are the sub-areas of a subject.  For example, if Science is a subject area, then Physical Science is a subdiscipline area.  So we have:
- Science (subject area)
    - Physical Science (subdiscipline area)

A subject area does not need to have any subdiscipline areas.  Subdiscipline areas may also be referred to as subject disciplines.

[top](#top)

<a name="competency_area"></a>competency area
---
A competency area is a major area of learning within a subject area, or a subdiscipline area.  For example, "Experimental Design" would be a competency area of Science, while "Motion and Forces" and "Structure of Matter" would be competency areas of Physical Science.  We would have:

- Science (subject area)
    - *blank*
        - Experimental Design (competency area)
    - Physical Science (subdiscipline area)
        - Motion and Forces (competency area)
        - Structure of Matter (competency area)

There should probably be three to five competency areas within any subject area or subdiscipline area.

[top](#top)

<a name="essential_understanding"></a>essential understanding
---
An essential understanding is a specific idea within a given competency area.  We get to define the grain size and format of our essential understandings, to have better internal consistency in our own system than some existing standards documents have.

Essential understandings are the big ideas that relate to a competency area.  They are specific, but still a little bigger-picture than individual learning targets.

Example:
- Science (subject area)
    - Physical Science (subdiscipline area)
        - Motion and Forces (competency area)
            - Newton's Laws describe the motion of most objects. (essential understanding) 
[top](#top)

<a name="learning_target"></a>learning target
---
A learning target is a specific idea within an essential understanding.  These are all of the facts and concepts that a student needs to know in order to demonstrate mastery of an essential understanding.  The "grain size" of a learning target can vary.  This is the level at which we probably want to implement infinite nesting.

Example:
- Science (subject area)
    - Physical Science (subdiscipline area)
        - Motion and Forces (competency area)
            - Newton's Laws describe the motion of most objects. (essential understanding)
                - I can state Newton's First Law. (learning target)
                    - I know that when forces are balanced, an object does not undergo any acceleration. (learning target)
                    - I can solve problems involving an object moving at a constant speed. (learning target)

[top](#top)

<a name="professional_standard"></a>professional standard
---
meaning

[top](#top)

<a name="common_core_standard"></a>common core standard
---
meaning

[top](#top)

<a name="state_standard"></a>state standard
---
meaning

[top](#top)

<a name="performance_level"></a>performance level
---
A performance level is a measure of the level of quality of a piece of work that a student has done.  Open Competencies is really just a set of learning targets, so performance levels should feature more prominently in the Open Curriculum Builder and the Open Learning Tracker, but it is good to be aware of them while working on this project.  We want to make sure that the learning targets that are laid out allow students to work at the full range of levels described here.

A performance level is the level of skill or knowledge that a piece of work demonstrates.  Performance levels are [Apprentice](#apprentice), [Technician](#technician), [Master](#master), and [Professional](#professional).  These are not scores or grades; the lowest level still demonstrates basic competence.  A student may work at a high level in many subjects, but may never achieve professional level work during high school.

[top](#top)

<a name="apprentice"></a>apprentice
---
All work at the Apprentice [level](#performance_level) is correct.  Work shows an appropriate understanding of background knowledge in the subject area.  Work includes descriptions, observations, and summaries of information.  Work shows that the student has accepted supervision and guidance from teachers, peers, and others.

[top](#top)

<a name="technician"></a>technician
---
Work at the technician [level](#performance_level) is strong enough for others to build on.  The work is correct, and meaningful enough that it can contribute to a larger, long-term project.  The work shows that the student has thought critically about their own understanding, and the work of others.  The student has demonstrated not just background knowledge, but actual expertise in a particular subject.  The work contributes to a higher-stakes project, something that is meaningful to a larger community.  Clear criteria is used by the student to evaluate their work.  The clear criteria steers the student through a series of revisions, to meet a targeted level of quality.  The student has reflected thoughtfully on their work.

[top](#top)

<a name="master"></a>master
---
Students at the master [level](#performance_level) have built something that is useful for the community.  They have completed complex work independently, and have supervised or guided people working at the [apprentice](#apprentice) level.  They have developed informed opinions about significant issues related to the topic.  They have accessed resources beyond just their teachers, and incorporated these resources into their work.  They have contributed reliably to a high-stakes collaborative project.  They have demonstrated appropriate use of a variety of tools related to the subject.

Students should aim to reach this level in the areas where they have the most interest, and the areas which relate to their career goals.  It is important to recognize that students in most schools never reach this level, because most school projects are never used by anyone.  One of the goals of defining these levels is to help students go beyond the level of what happens in most schools.

[top](#top)

<a name="professional"></a>professional
---
Work at this level has been critically evaluated by outside professionals.  Professionals in the field respect work at this level, and would be happy to have the student on their team.  Work at this level has been selected to be displayed at professional gatherings, and in professional workplaces.  Students at this level have solved a new problem in the field, or for particularly complex problems, have outlined a clear plan for solving a new problem.  Students have demonstrated a clear history of working independently, with self-motivation and an intrinsic sense of quality in their work, over a significant period of time.  Staff have made sure to avoid having professionals simply compliment students' work because they are still in school; their respect is authentic and based on objective criteria, with room for subjective reactions as well.

[top](#top)

Commit message:

professional, state, common core standard

GLOSSARY.md, after:

<a name="top"></a>Open Competencies - Glossary
===
It is important to have a glossary, so that we all share a common understanding of the terms used to design this tool.  The final site should have a public-facing glossary, but for now this is an internal document so that developers are on the same page.

Terms
---
- [competency education](#competency_education)
- hierarchy/ taxonomy
    - [subject area](#subject)
        - [subdiscipline area](#subdiscipline_area)
            - [competency area](#competency_area)
                - [essential understanding](#essential_understanding)
                    - [learning target](#learning_target)
- other
    - types of standards
        - [professional standard](#professional_standard)
        - [common core standard](#common_core_standard)
        - [state standard](#state_standard)
    - [performance level](#performance_level)
        - [apprentice](#apprentice)
        - [technician](#technician)
        - [master](#master)
        - [professional](#professional)


Definitions
---

<a name="competency_education"></a>competency education
---
In competency-based education, or competency education for short, each student is given a map of all the things they could learn in high school.  Based on each student's post-high school goals, we specify the learning targets that each student needs to meet.  When a student meets all of their learning targets at the appropriate [performance level](#performance_level), they graduate.  There is no ninth, tenth, eleventh, or twelfth grade; if a student takes two years to finish their map, they graduate in two years.  If they take six years, they graduate in six years.

Traditional education models treat time in school as a constant, and learning as a variable.  So at the end of twelfth grade everyone has been at school for roughly the same number of years, but people have a huge range of skills and knowledge.  Within a class, Algebra 1 for example, everyone spends roughly the same amount of time in class but comes away with very different levels of knowledge, understanding, and skills.  Competency education flips this; it treats what is to be learned as a constant for each person, and lets them take whatever time they need (or don't need) to meet their own learning targets.

[top](#top)

<a name="subject_area"></a>subject area
---
The definition of an academic “subject area” may seem obvious, but it is important to define this term as we bring non-academic subjects into the system.  It is fairly straightforward to define the traditional academic subject areas such as Mathematics, Science, Social Studies, and English.

One of the advantages of a comprehensive system such as Open Competencies is the freedom we have to define anything and everything we might like young people to learn.  We want to value important skills such as programming, and important character traits such as honesty and reliability.  Which subjects do these traits and skills fall under?  A well-structured system forces us to answer this question, and answering this kind of question frees us to bring anything we identify as important to student success into the system.

[top](#top)

<a name="subdiscipline_area"></a>subdiscipline area
---
These are the sub-areas of a subject.  For example, if Science is a subject area, then Physical Science is a subdiscipline area.  So we have:
- Science (subject area)
    - Physical Science (subdiscipline area)

A subject area does not need to have any subdiscipline areas.  Subdiscipline areas may also be referred to as subject disciplines.

[top](#top)

<a name="competency_area"></a>competency area
---
A competency area is a major area of learning within a subject area, or a subdiscipline area.  For example, "Experimental Design" would be a competency area of Science, while "Motion and Forces" and "Structure of Matter" would be competency areas of Physical Science.  We would have:

- Science (subject area)
    - *blank*
        - Experimental Design (competency area)
    - Physical Science (subdiscipline area)
        - Motion and Forces (competency area)
        - Structure of Matter (competency area)

There should probably be three to five competency areas within any subject area or subdiscipline area.

[top](#top)

<a name="essential_understanding"></a>essential understanding
---
An essential understanding is a specific idea within a given competency area.  We get to define the grain size and format of our essential understandings, to have better internal consistency in our own system than some existing standards documents have.

Essential understandings are the big ideas that relate to a competency area.  They are specific, but still a little bigger-picture than individual learning targets.

Example:
- Science (subject area)
    - Physical Science (subdiscipline area)
        - Motion and Forces (competency area)
            - Newton's Laws describe the motion of most objects. (essential understanding) 
[top](#top)

<a name="learning_target"></a>learning target
---
A learning target is a specific idea within an essential understanding.  These are all of the facts and concepts that a student needs to know in order to demonstrate mastery of an essential understanding.  The "grain size" of a learning target can vary.  This is the level at which we probably want to implement infinite nesting.

Example:
- Science (subject area)
    - Physical Science (subdiscipline area)
        - Motion and Forces (competency area)
            - Newton's Laws describe the motion of most objects. (essential understanding)
                - I can state Newton's First Law. (learning target)
                    - I know that when forces are balanced, an object does not undergo any acceleration. (learning target)
                    - I can solve problems involving an object moving at a constant speed. (learning target)

[top](#top)

<a name="professional_standard"></a>professional standard
---
A standard that is defined by a professional body such as the [National Council of Teachers of Mathematics (NCTM)](http://www.nctm.org/), or the [National Council of Teachers of English (NCTE)](http://www.ncte.org/).

[top](#top)

<a name="common_core_standard"></a>common core standard
---
A standard that comes from the [Common Core State Standards Initiative](http://www.corestandards.org/).  This is an effort to bring state standards into better alignment across the US.

[top](#top)

<a name="state_standard"></a>state standard
---
A learning target identified by an individual state.  These standards change on a timeframe determined by each state.  The quality of state standards varies widely.

Open Competencies is built from the best existing standards in each topic area.  To support teachers and individuals who must report on a given state's standards, the competencies should be mapped to each state's standards.  When a state's standards are changed, only the mapping should change.  If a state's changes point out a deficiency in Open Competencies, we should update our system.  Otherwise, we keep our system as it is and just change the mapping, so teachers in that state can still use Open Competencies and report on their state standards.

[top](#top)

<a name="performance_level"></a>performance level
---
A performance level is a measure of the level of quality of a piece of work that a student has done.  Open Competencies is really just a set of learning targets, so performance levels should feature more prominently in the Open Curriculum Builder and the Open Learning Tracker, but it is good to be aware of them while working on this project.  We want to make sure that the learning targets that are laid out allow students to work at the full range of levels described here.

A performance level is the level of skill or knowledge that a piece of work demonstrates.  Performance levels are [Apprentice](#apprentice), [Technician](#technician), [Master](#master), and [Professional](#professional).  These are not scores or grades; the lowest level still demonstrates basic competence.  A student may work at a high level in many subjects, but may never achieve professional level work during high school.

[top](#top)

<a name="apprentice"></a>apprentice
---
All work at the Apprentice [level](#performance_level) is correct.  Work shows an appropriate understanding of background knowledge in the subject area.  Work includes descriptions, observations, and summaries of information.  Work shows that the student has accepted supervision and guidance from teachers, peers, and others.

[top](#top)

<a name="technician"></a>technician
---
Work at the technician [level](#performance_level) is strong enough for others to build on.  The work is correct, and meaningful enough that it can contribute to a larger, long-term project.  The work shows that the student has thought critically about their own understanding, and the work of others.  The student has demonstrated not just background knowledge, but actual expertise in a particular subject.  The work contributes to a higher-stakes project, something that is meaningful to a larger community.  Clear criteria is used by the student to evaluate their work.  The clear criteria steers the student through a series of revisions, to meet a targeted level of quality.  The student has reflected thoughtfully on their work.

[top](#top)

<a name="master"></a>master
---
Students at the master [level](#performance_level) have built something that is useful for the community.  They have completed complex work independently, and have supervised or guided people working at the [apprentice](#apprentice) level.  They have developed informed opinions about significant issues related to the topic.  They have accessed resources beyond just their teachers, and incorporated these resources into their work.  They have contributed reliably to a high-stakes collaborative project.  They have demonstrated appropriate use of a variety of tools related to the subject.

Students should aim to reach this level in the areas where they have the most interest, and the areas which relate to their career goals.  It is important to recognize that students in most schools never reach this level, because most school projects are never used by anyone.  One of the goals of defining these levels is to help students go beyond the level of what happens in most schools.

[top](#top)

<a name="professional"></a>professional
---
Work at this level has been critically evaluated by outside professionals.  Professionals in the field respect work at this level, and would be happy to have the student on their team.  Work at this level has been selected to be displayed at professional gatherings, and in professional workplaces.  Students at this level have solved a new problem in the field, or for particularly complex problems, have outlined a clear plan for solving a new problem.  Students have demonstrated a clear history of working independently, with self-motivation and an intrinsic sense of quality in their work, over a significant period of time.  Staff have made sure to avoid having professionals simply compliment students' work because they are still in school; their respect is authentic and based on objective criteria, with room for subjective reactions as well.

[top](#top)
